---
layout: post
title: So many bright and shiny things
date: 2016-09-16
tags: [the frosh life]
---
It's impossible not to find yourself distracted.

I've been at college for almost two weeks now, and you never appreciate just how much being pushed out of your comfort zone teaches you in a miniscule period of time. The concept that you learn faster if you're doing something you're not completely ready for has been widely taught to a point where it is nothing short of a complete cliché, but in my defense I'm not sure if there is a life out there that isn't anymore. College feels are such memes, but they're *real*. Staying out late at night with friends, wearing clothes that are more commonly mistaken as trash bags, having the freedom to make bad decisions about your health and academic well-being: These are feels everyone has heard of before, but they're absolute revelations to me.

To some degree, my amusement can be chalked up to the fact that I get impressed extremely easily. I just learned what hazing was, and I felt I was the only one who took it as news. But did you know that there's a *freaking* pool underground in our 5-storey athletic centre? Sounds like a lie, but it's true. I momentarily forget that I pay around the same tuition that Canada considers the poverty line for single person and I just marvel at how much money these facilities must have cost to build. This world is amazing. Wow.

I'd argue though that there are aspects of university life that are culture shocks to suburban kids like myself. For example, I thought the rampant liberals were entities and not tangible beings until my school washrooms became co-ed and all my forms ask if I'm male or female *identifying*. It's truly a terrifying place, and one can't help but think that the indoctrination in "free" countries such as Canada are real.

The best aspect of university by far is the breadth of people that I get to meet, and the perspectives I get to receive on these very subjects. I'm not even talking about all the exchange students I've met to date, which is a very high number. For the first time I get a look into how having the second-largest landmass in the world contributes to an extremely diverse spread of people. On one hand, I met a student from rural Manitoba that describes the one stoplight in his town as "the main attraction". So what do the people think of Trudeau? "They absolutely hate his guts. They think their small businesses are taxed far too much." On the other hand, I met an Engineering and Maths PhD student who explained to me that PhD students actually get paid to study. It's a pittance, but unlike what I previously thought, you don't have to pay your way through 10 years of school. She moved in from Montréal, and when I explained how good Quebecers had their tuition and literally everything from the Canadian government, she was floored. "There are a couple potholes in our cities. Before I came to Kingston (which is an old town, so it's pretty run down) I was indoctrinated into thinking that we had the worst roads and the government didn't care about us. We had a conspiracy theory that the Canadian government was spending that money on the western provinces instead." When told that the rest of Canada exudes a desperation to keep Quebec Canadian, she laughs and confesses that she has no idea what her city would do without us. I never felt so relieved in my life, because I really want maple syrup to remain a Canadian icon.

Of course, the long list of new shiny things to be enamoured by doesn't just stop at new living experiences. I was a bit of a club fanatic back in high school, and my university is literally a wonderland. Day and night I find myself trying to dream up witty one-liners for my applications instead of doing my coursework, which is a terrible idea and even lamer than it sounds. The idea of overcommitment is threat that looms in the far distance for me, so I write applications like its my full time job. The problem is that they're selective and there is a good chance that I won't be hired, so I want to apply to everything just to make sure I at least have *something* to land on. I've join case clubs, design groups, tech development groups, and even a buddies club where I'm paired up with a student in the community who has a learning disability. This will probably come back and hit me pretty hard later, but since my coursework is still pretty light, I've been seeing it as an invitation to fill every single minute of my day.

You'll get a good idea of how I'm faring based on how sparse these posts will probably become. However, journalling *is* one of my assignments thus far, so hopefully this can go in for marks.
