---
layout: post
title: Non-corporate sets make for better sitcoms
date: 2016-08-10
tags: [screen reviews]
---
American sitcom *Parks and Recreation* is miles ahead of its predecessor, *The Office*. It didn't revolve around a single social cripple, its supporting characters were everything you wished your squad could be, and "treat yo' self" is the most applicable line that has ever come from the small screen. On the surface, it's easy to put it down to talented show-runner(s) refining their craft for a new masterpiece, but after trying out The Office for two seasons, I promptly re binge-watched all seven seasons of Parks and Recreation. This time, I reached a deeper conclusion. Sort of.

Parks and Recreation's taxpayer funded atmosphere made for more enjoyable TV. It allowed for more character development and more highly anticipated detail into their personal lives. The situation felt more probable, which led to the mood being more genuine than the awkward uneasiness that plagued The Office. You cannot tell me that Angela Kinsley was okay with having an illicit affair with Dwight Shrute. You can't. Maybe that's the point in the name of absurdist humor, but nobody enjoys thinking about it in detail. I'm sorry.

The inane and inconsequential Parks and Recreation department brought no attention to the employees' skills and roles in the department, instead focusing on their odd idiosyncrasies and personalities. In fact, you get the feeling this is a real life island of misfit toys. What the heck is Jerry doing there, but to be Terry? This is a huge contrast to the corporate world where each hire and each process is streamlined because they're here to make as much profit as possible while spending the least amount of money they can get away with. Everyone has to have a role. In The Office, each cast member didn't just have a role, but they had a personality that supported it instead of the other way around. Uptight Angela Martin was the very definition of micromanaging accountant. Toby's human resources position was ironic because he was so poor at social interactions. Chill, charismatic dudes Jim and Ryan were sales hustlers, while plain Pam was the perfect receptionist. The best remembered characters were the ones that had personalities that transcended their jobs and made you forget that they were supposed to be there doing actual work. Bureaucratic bloat and unproductivity was a recurring theme in both shows, and it's easy to see where it felt more at home. In both shows, characters were displaying incredible talent at doing their jobs poorly. For The Office, I'd constantly wonder why Michael Scott couldn't be fired. For Parks, I forgot Donna was working a job. By no means does Parks depict real life any better than The Office, but while I was watching, it just *felt* more probable.

And because you forgot they were working a job, the show could go deeper into their personal lives without the fear of straying too far from the main premise. The Office pretty much stayed exactly within its title for the entire show, which was a shame, because arguably the most acclaimed plot line was Jim and Pam's office turned personal relationship. I'm sure the point was to turn the office into a makeshift petri dish so audiences could see what grew specifically within those walls, but parks didn't have these walls to be confined by. The show went behind the scenes with everybody, which forged a stronger connection between the characters and the audience.

Without these boundaries, Parks also demonstrated a much better understanding of absurdist humor, or at least the enjoyable type. At its best, absurdist humor is a great comedy medium because it is generally unoffensive, harmless, and squeaky clean. Tom Haverford's obvious tough luck with women, his clueless obsession with glitz and glamour, his stint with Entertainment 720, and not to mention his flamboyant demeanor makes him a champion for the absurdist humor cause. On top of that, he's just one of the many winning characters from Parks that do the same. Michael Scott and Dwight Shrute were undoubtedly written for a similar fate, but only the latter can claim to be absurd yet enjoyable. Michael Scott berates, insults, and at the very least overpowers every other cast member, but his cluelessness is not enough to make it fun to watch. He gets exactly what he wanted in the end, often without learning the right lesson. Maybe one could argue that his situation is more realistic, but it is difficult to watch Phylis's face tremble when he unapologetically calls her handmade Christmas gift "stupid". Angela and Dwight are a little *too* absurd for comfort. It's too much.

Corporate settings can make extremely entertaining television. *Suits*, with its high intensity storyline and overzealous drama is an excellent example. It focuses on one place where corporate jobs excel: Lots of pressure, bringing high stakes along for the ride. The specific flavour of chill situational comedy brought to life by Michael Schur and friends best showcases the exact opposite. While the premise of a show set at a paper company in a world that is actively trying to use less paper is hilarious, it ultimately cannot compete with a set where ineffective bureaucracy is at the core of its existence. 
