---
layout: post
title: "I'm Going to Start Capitalizing My Titles & Other Style Changes"
date: 2017-09-03
tags: [design, web development]
---
*This is the second installment of my "What I'm doing this week" series, but don't get used to the frequent updates. School is starting and soon I won't have a free minute.*

I'm so excited to unveil a remake of my portfolio! After letting it sit for a year, my domain expired and I was forced to shell out more college money renew it. My website was a concept piece that didn't have any of my current work so I took three days to grind out a new look.

**Easier maintenance and faster workflow.** I built the old website from scratch so all the responsive elements were designed and coded meticulously. I didn't have the time to add new items and reconfigure the responsive elements of my website, so I went back to a simpler, blog-like style that will be easier to update. I've also learned how to use Sketch since then and the lightweight application runs circles around Abode Photoshop when it comes to creating images I can use for the website. It took me at least two full weeks to build my portfolio first time from a blank HTML document- This time, it took me three days.

**New logo!** I'm so excited about my new logo. It's a weird direction for me because I am an anti-serif crusader, but I've flipped over to the dark side. I've cemented my commitment in by changing the body font on my blog, as well.

**Proper title casing, because my blog isn't a chat room.** I've loved the atmosphere of dry humor that <h1 style="text-transform: lowercase;"></h1> brings but it's time to accept that I'm not funny and move on with my life. My digital stand-up days were painfully awkward and wildly unsuccessful. Goodbye, tumblr-obsessed Elaine.

### Other happenings

**Technology Analyst for (Queen's University Investment Counsel)[http://quiconline.ca].** I'll be starting a new tech role as the work for my (Grad Maps)[http://careers.queensu.ca/gradmaps] project winds down. With frosh fair approaching, I will be incredibly busy this week creating design materials for them. While this role is in the realm of what I've typically done for clubs, I'm excited for the exposure to discussions about market trends.

**Fun facts about this blog:** Exactly one year and one day ago, I published my first post on this blog. If you're still here, thanks. It's obvious that September 1st is my internal New Year's because I make all my resolutions for commitment then. 
