---
layout: post
title: "A Queen's University Marketing and Design Assistant reflects on her first summer job"
date: 2017-08-31
tags: [design, life]
---
I'm writing as much as I can currently because I just launched my blog again and I'm doing my best to drown out shameful old blog posts written by my younger self.

**Today was the second last day of my summer job.** Going in, I thought I had a good idea of what to expect and I didn't think it would be much of a challenge- I worked there part time during the school year prior. My project was to rehaul and reupload the university's new Grad Maps ([found here](http://careers.queensu.ca/gradmaps)), which are documents that outline the basics of each and every single graduate program at Queen's. At the core, they provide prospective and current students with guidance regarding the academic, extra curricular, and career aspects of a given degree, and the career outcomes available or skills they can expect to gain. The project requires complicated collaboration across all the many stakeholders across campus to create a consistent looking product, and due to the scale of this project Queen's is the first university in Canada to have created this product. 

The real headache is that they need to be updated every year because the content becomes outdated. We have 88 maps (up from 79 from last year) and they each need to be exported to four different file types. They go through at least 4 rounds of revisions by different stakeholders, and I only have 16 weeks to bring them from conception to print.

As I mentioned, I was initially unfazed by this project. I knew I had the technical skills to complete the project on time, but as this was my first time working in an office, my communication, time management, and collaborative skills had a lot of brushing up to do. 

**I was terrified of sending follow-up emails.** As a type A keener I'm painfully aware of and try avoiding situations where I appear desperate. However, I had a project deadline and people were not getting back to me on time. I started writing gentle reminders peppered with apologies and angst, but eventually I murdered all my emotions and just freely wrote the short, curt emails that people would actually read. They were vital to finishing on time and something that I now realize are inevitable.

**I received work unevenly, in large batches.** I had to learn to constantly prioritize projects to smooth out my workload but still finish on time. I started believing that should work on projects in inbox order, but in practicality, this was not efficient. When I did freelance projects I never had to consider the constraint of time, and it was a definite learning curve for me. Learning how to optimize my workload enabled me to be the first (and youngest!) student from the last 4 years to finish this project in 16 week's time. 

**I received constant feedback on my work.** I learned to get over my fear that feedback for my design work wasn't a knock on my ability, but a way to make the end product better and more useful for larger audiences. I was so beholden to a belief that the average person just didn't understand beautiful, minimal design, but the truth is that everything has its time and place. I received so much feedback to my face that once again, it was vital to murder my emotions and listen wholeheartedly. It's clear to me now that being able to hear and consider different perspectives is one of the biggest takeaways from higher educatiob- It's the most obvious difference between first year and fourth year students. I'm so grateful this job has allowed me to realize that. 

Initially I was worried that staying to redesign the maps wouldn't be enough of a challenge for me, but in hindsight it was a great decision because I got the incredible opportunity to witness the complete birth and end of this project, its impact on the University, and to work in the collaborative environment that almost all workplaces have. Having worked and established myself as a reliable project hand, there was an immense amount of trust placed in me. I researched material for and edited maps without supervision, and was allowed to upload them directly to the website. I essentially had around 50 accounts to manage, and I was able to play the roles of account manager, designer, and marketing director all at once. 